Hello and welcome to this tutorial.
Now we are finally going to start preparing the data so that our machine learning models run correctly.
And the first problem that we have to deal with is the case where you have some missing data in your
data set.
And that happens quite a lot actually in real life.
So you have to get the trick to handle this problem and make it all good for your machine learning model
to run correctly.
So let's have a look at the data set here.
I'm going to make my Google Sheets tab OK.
So here is the data set.
And as you can see there is two missing data.
There is one missing data in the H column here for Spain and one missing data in the salary column for
Germany.
So how can we handle this problem.
Well a first idea is to remove the lines the observations where there is some missing data.
So what we could do is to remove this line and remove this line.
But that can be quite dangerous because imagine this data set contains crucial information.
It would be quite dangerous to remove an observation.
So we need to figure out a better idea to handle this problem.
And another idea and that's actually the most common idea to handle missing data is to take the mean
of the columns.
So here we are going to replace dismissing data here by the mean of all the values in the Column H.
And that's the same for every feature that contains missing data.
We replace this missing data by the mean of the values in the column that contains this missing data.
OK.
So let's do this.
First we need to take our data set.
So data set.
Let's start by taking care of the missing value in the age column.
So here we will need to take the H column and to do this and are we need to add a dollar sign here and
here we choose H.
So by doing that data sets dollar age we're taking the column age of the dataset then we're gonna add
equals and then we're going to add an F else.
So I'm going to type if else here then parentheses in the if else function you have to input three parameters
the first parameter is your condition if condition.
The second parameter is the value you want to input if the condition is true and the cigarette matter
is the value you want to input if the condition is false.
So let's first input the condition the condition is going to be is that in a parenthesis dataset.
Dollar H and that's it is an A is a function that tells if the value in the function is missing or not.
So by putting is in a data set dollar age we are checking to see if all the values in the column age
are missing.
So this will return true if the value in the column age is missing and false if the value in the column
age is not missing.
Okay.
That's the condition.
And now the second parameter is the value that is going to be returned if the condition above is true.
And of course if the condition is true that means that there is a missing value.
And that means that we have to replace it with the average.
So here we are going to input as the second parameter the average of the column H again to compute the
average and R there is a simple way we can type a V then dataset assign age because we want to take
the column age then come up and then here we are going to add a function.
So we're gonna type a fund in capitals phone equals then function then function X. This is still part
of the R syntax we're just making a function here which is gonna be the main function and then we have
to specify what this function will be.
And so this function is of course to mean which is an existing function in R so here parentheses x come
up and here we're just going to add an A that r m equals true and that means that we ask and that means
that we ask r to include the missing values when all will go through the whole Column H to compute the
mean of the values.
Now we still need to close the parenthesis here again then come out.
So that's it for the second parameter.
And now we need to add the third parameter and in European and what is it going to be while this third
parameter is the value you want to return if the first condition is not true.
That means that the value in the column age is not missing.
So that means that the value exists.
So here we are simply going to put data set
okay and that's done by typing this.
We replace the missing value in the column age by the mean of the column age itself.
So let's say like this and let's see what happens.
So command controls enter to execute and here it is and executed properly.
And now let's look at our data set by clicking on this tab here and good perfect.
The missing value that was here in the age column was replaced by the mean of the column.
Great.
So now let's do the same for the salary.
We're just going to copy this paste and we're just going to replace age by the salary.
Here here as well here as well and also here.
Great.
And now we have to be careful with something.
It has to be a line here.
So we just have to do this.
And same for here this.
Okay.
And now we're fine.
Now we're ready to select this code section here.
Press American shoppers enter to execute.
Here it is.
Let's check our data set and perfect the missing value in the salary that was here was replaced by the
mean of the salary column sixty three thousand seven hundred seventy seven dollars.
Okay perfect congratulations.
Now you know how to take care of missing data in both python and R.
That's the end of the tutorial.
And I look forward to see you in the next tutorial.
The next material will be about categorical data.
So we will learn how to encode categorical data.
You will understand why we have to do this so I look forward to seeing you in the next tutorial.
And until then enjoy machine learning.